Welcome back to the advanced course on
Tableau and we are steadily approaching
the end of this section. All we have left
to do is to make this dashboard look
fantastic.
So let's jump straight into it and let's
fix this up so that it is presentable to
a board of directors.
Alright the first thing we want to do is
fix up this main area, it still looks bit
small and we can make it look a little
bit better so let's go to the
scatterplot and here we want to
increase the size, so probably that's
the main thing and increasing the size
and now we need to let's decrease or
increase the transparency. Now you can
see that by increasing the size we've
achieved that there's a lot sometimes a
big overlap but that doesn't really
matter because our focus is the red gems
and we want them to stand out what
happens with the blue stuff the blue
companies and we don't really mind so
that, that looks better.
Okay that's our scatterplot next we want
to do is we want to have consistent
colors we wanted this red to be the same
red as here let's go ahead and do that.
The scatterplot if we go to colors edit
colors we double-click we can copy the
code over here and then we go
over here or more probably to this one
and we just replace this red with the
same code, apply. Ok now I'm going to show
you a trick so here they go down into
gray but we don't want that. This gray
looks like this gray and that's not true
all of these are companies that are
above the growth level, like the they
this part of the visualization, doesn't
have a filter on revenue and expenses. So
maybe some of them are under in
revenue expenses but its necessary,
doesn't necessarily mean these exact
ones that could be up here it could be
or wherever.
So we don't want to confuse the user, we
want all these to
be red. We want all of them to
represent so everything here is actually
a diamond on our visualization because
we can't make these into diamonds we can
just make them red, so the user will
know that this red is like all the ones
that are in red here are definitely
going to be in here, but not all the ones
in here and red are going to be in red
on the visualization and that's okay
that's fine,
so basically the red ones here are
subset of the red ones here. Let's go
ahead and fix up this gray so there is
no gray and I'm going to show you a
quick trick here start over here and
color, edit colors so we're going to go
to advanced and we're going to start and
end so we're going to put the starting
point below. We're going to put start
pointing if we put the starting point at
zero then by the time it gets to the
lowest value here it's already red so
that all the gray stuff has started at
zero and now it's it's 500%
it's already red but
that's too red and you can't really tell
the difference. So let's fix that up a
bit, let's say let's put a 2 so here you
can see it's pale red here it's darker
and that's what we want that's good so
just a subtle difference which will tell
the user that these are indeed
they do have a higher growth rate than
these ones but they're still all red.
Okay so that's good that's colors fixed up
what else do we want? Well, we don't want
this name here. We don't want the title
here. We might add a title for the whole
dashboard.
Let's do that that'll be fun. So text
just put it in here at the top and let's
say the star top quadrant
and let's get a bigger size maybe they
can bold and start of that see what we get,
ok so this is not exactly in the right
spot, we want it there and make it
smaller and double-click center it. Ok
looking a bit better but we want to add
a bit of like color to our dashboard
make it stand out a bit better so we
want to change this background and we
want to make this whole line one of the
colors are red, blue or gray. So select
the one that you like the most
just for consistency purposes I'm going
to select blue so I'm going to go back
to my scatter plot and we're double
click on the blue, double click on the
blue, take the blue from here and then
I'm going to right click format text,
shading, more colors and just put in the
code here.
Ok now the text itself you double-click,
can make it white, blue. White and
blue is very good looks very good like
that change the fonts you usually want
to keep a consistent font speaking of
aesthetics and best practices you want
to keep a consistent font throughout your
dashboard but for the header it's okay
if you change the fonts to something
else so I'm going to change to Arial
black so it kind of makes that a bit
more of a statement
okay so that looks good, what else do I
want to change? Now let's look at the
fonts you don't want your axis to take
attention. You don't want them to grab
too much attention you want them to be
there for reference but right now
they're in bold and it's attracting
too much attention so ok, when we're doing
analysis and mining, data mining in our
worksheets but when some dashboard you
want them to be subtle so right-click
the axis or actually let's
right-click the whole sheet and click
format because there's no other things
in the sheet right now. In fact, if
other values appear in the sheet which
will see just now we want them also to
be subtle so let's change this to
not bold and let's see what happens if
we change it to a 10.
I think that looks good I think that
looks good so let's change this edit
axis we don't need 2015 because they
already know it's going to be 2015 and
edit axis here as well get rid of the
2015.
Ok so that that's looking better now,
these over here name, we need to change
that. So let's go to this sheet or
basically any sheet and change name to
come
rename let's call it, let's call it a
start-up ok and now what else we want?
Our growth so we want to change this
let's change growth
let's change the title or before we do
let's change these as well as so we want
them to be tens as well. So we'll go
format font and make it 10 but the
heading, let's go here and actually we'll
look at me like that will change the
heading here so growth we want to
replace that with top then this is a
like a trick so star again we want to
put it a value that changes in here so
we'll put our parameter will put leaders
and then by growth make this all arial
and make it a because it is a heading, so
make it 12 and make it bold.
Ok so as you can see as I change this
parameter, the name of this sheet changes
which is good which rows connects the
two so they can see as you're changing
this is changing which is great. Now
let's edit the parameters right so we
need to change their fonts so for my
parameters change this to a 12 as well
make it bold. Okay, so they're kind of all
the same make sure it's ariel is good so
it's consistent when you look down this
way. Now, we want to format the how the
values are represented here so let's go
ahead because this is too much
information people don't need to know
that it's eight million something
thousand and something dollars.
Let's edit parameter right-click
parameter and leave is an integer
display currency and let's make it
millions and only one decimal point that
should be sufficient totally sufficient
same thing here, edit parameter current
value so no currency millions.
Okay that looks good yes so now when I
change it it's changing in millions much
much better.
Alright so that's done ok so let's add
some more powerful features to this
dashboard. There's three things are going
to add we're going to add reference
lines drop lines and we're going to fix
up the tooltip ok so let's start with
the reference lines because they're the
coolest. If we right-click on revenue and
we click add reference line then so we
want to basically a vertical line which
will tell us exactly where the cutoff
point is so to add that line we're going
to say instead of line here we're going
to select the revenue cut off the
parameter and as you can see the lines
appear already and instead of label
which is over here we're going to say
instead of computation against a value,
click OK. Now same thing for the expenses
edit axis, oops, add reference line and
we're going to say expenses cut off and
we're going to say value.
Okay so look watch how cool this is if
now I change these the not only the
colors change but also the quadrant you
can actually visually see how the
quadrant is changing and that is very
powerful,
so you can see the quadrant itself over
here that has the lines cross. Ok now we
want to add a drop line. so when I click
on a so if they're interested in this
company
what they don't know it's kind of hard
to see where the revenue falls. Let's
help them with that let's right click
click drop lines show drop lines and now
whenever you click on something the drop
lines will guide your eyes to see where
exactly the revenue falls.
Ok that's interesting, ok so now one more
thing that we have left to do is the
tooltip. So you see how this tool tip is
floating around and it's not formatted
and doesn't have the correct it doesn't
have the best information could and also
here like we don't need a tooltip at
all.
So if we click on that and we go to
worksheet and we select tool tip it
brings up the tooltip for that sheet and
we don't want the tooltip at all, click OK
and now you can see there's no tip. Now
this tool tip is useful but we need to
change its content so let's go to the
sheet and let's see what we want in here
so we want the name of the company
alright so startup let's put it in
detail so then we can use it in the
tooltip. So if I go to the tooltip here,
you'll see I'm just going to get rid of
everything if I insert from here you can
only insert the things that are actually
present on your worksheet, so you see I
had to start up I can use startup. Now
what else do we want? We want the
industry, we want as soon as the people
or the more an executive put some the
mouse over it they want to find out the
name, the industry what else when it was
founded what grow food had in
2015? What else? And their description so
we've got a description here.
So let's go ahead and now fix up this
tool tip. There it is,
so get rid of everything and first thing
we're going to add and actually tooltips
being good with tooltips is a whole art
form, if you gotta, you gotta be able to
format them nicely because people rely
on them heavily sometimes so start up
and we're going to is involved that's
good let's leave it like that then we're
going to say industry so which industry
did that company come from industry then
we've got the year when it was founded
then let's say growth in 2015 and
finally let's look at a description.
So if I click ok now, tooltip is just awful
horrible.
Let's see how we can fix it up really
quickly so if we make these not bold and
then we add some comments, so industry
colon then year founded colon and here
we've got the 2015 growth and finally
here we will call it summary and if we
make this italics click OK, you see that
it's much better now. Let's go back to
the dashboard and you can see that when
somebody puts the mouse over a company
they can see everything about it they
can see the name, they can see when it
was founded, the growth and some
description so offers on demand
worldwide jet charters and also provides
aircraft owners with expertise in
acquiring and so on and to finish off
let's enjoy our dashboard in
presentation mode just like executives
will be looking at it. So let's go window
presentation mode and viola this is our
beautiful dashboard.
Don't you think it's just amazing? It is
a very responsive, you can change your
cut-off points and change the quadrant,
you can also change your growth leaders
so how many you want to
visualize and then if you want to mind
the data you can click on the
company that you're interested in and
find out the exact revenue and expenses
figures and also the tooltip gives you a
lot of valuable information about the
company that you are investigating and
so that helps you make your decision.
I'm sure that the board of executives
will be extremely happy with his
dashboard and I hope that you are proud
of your work.
It was quite a impressive section and in
the next tutorial we will sum up
everything we've learned. I look forward
to seeing you then,
until next time happy analyzing.